
STATEMENT

Summary of new rules
Molecules are now in limited supply! In order to produce the more costly medicines, you will have to acquire Expertise.
Medicine production raises your expertise. Accumulating enough expertise in certain molecules will let you complete Science Projects and score extra points!
Also, robots will take several turns to arrive at their destination, plan ahead!
See the updated statement for details.
As a developer at Roche, your work can directly impact the future of science, healthcare and quality of life for patients worldwide.

In this game, a Roche complex is equipped with a state of the art robotic drone capable of interfacing with all types of software from software used to diagnose disease at the molecular level to the finding of new medicines.

However, the robot needs an algorithm to optimize this process. And for that, Roche needs you. (please note that this is a game and does not reflect reality)
 	THE GOAL
Produce medicines and maximize your score by transporting items across a medical complex.
 	RULES
A game is played with 2 players. Each player controls one robot.

The complex is composed of 4 modules named SAMPLES, DIAGNOSIS, MOLECULES and LABORATORY. 
The robots can transfer two types of items from and to the modules: sample data files and molecules.

In a nutshell, you have to optimize your robot movements to:
Collect sample data files from the SAMPLES module.
Analyze sample data files at the DIAGNOSIS module to get a list of molecules for the associated medicine.
Gather required molecules for the medicines at the MOLECULES module.
Produce the medicines at the LABORATORY module and collect your health points.

 	DETAILS

The robots
Each player has one robot. Both robots have the same starting position.
A robot can carry up to 3 sample data files and 10 molecules.
A player can move their robot from one module to another by means of the GOTO module command.
Once the robot is at a module's interface, it can connect to it with the CONNECT command. This will have a different effect for each module.
Moving from one module to another takes a number of turns depending on the distance involved (see matrix below).
Once movement has started, it cannot be interrupted. Any commands given by the player during the turns when the robot is mobile will be ignored.
Sample data
A sample data file is an item representing all known data on a tissue sample collected from an untreated patient. Researching this sample may ultimately lead to the production of medicine to prolong the lives of all patients with the same ailment.
Sample data files can be in one of two states: undiagnosed (initial state) or diagnosed.
A diagnosed sample data is associated with the list of molecules needed to produce the medicine for that sample.
Each sample data file has a rank: 1, 2 or 3. The higher the rank, the more health points you will get from the medicine - but more molecules will be needed to produce the medicine.
Molecules
A molecule can be one of five types: A, B, C, D or E.
 	MODULES


The samples module

Connecting to this module with CONNECT rank, where rank is an integer between 1 and 3, will transfer an undiagnosed sample data file of rank rank to your robot.


The diagnosis machine

Connecting to this module with CONNECT id:
where id is the identifier of an undiagnosed sample data file the player is carrying, will change the sample's state to diagnosed.
where id is the identifier of a diagnosed sample data file the player is carrying, will transfer the sample data from the player to the cloud, where it will remain until a player takes it.
where id is the identifier of a diagnosed sample data file stored in the cloud, will transfer the sample data from the cloud to the player.


The molecule distribution module
Connecting to this module with CONNECT type, where type is one of the molecule types, will transfer an available molecule to your robot of the desired type.
The terminal will only provide a maximum of 5 molecules per type, until molecules are spent in the lab.
The laboratory module
To use this module, the player's robot must be carrying a sample data file as well as the required amount of molecules for producing that sample's medicine.
Connecting to this module with CONNECT id where id is the identifier of a sample data the player can research, will have several effects:
The sample data id as well as the associated molecules are removed from play.
The players scores as many points as the sample's health points.
The player acquires molecule expertise: the robot will need 1 less molecule of the type specified by the sample for producing all subsequent medicines.
Victory Conditions
Your robot has scored the most health points after 200 turns.
Lose Conditions
You fail to provide valid output.

 	Expert Rules
Source code
The source code of the game is available on our Github at this address: https://github.com/CodinGame/Code4Life
Concurrency
In the event that both players try to take sample data from the cloud on the same turn, only the player who had previously diagnosed this sample will successfully complete the transfer.
In the event that both players request the last molecule of a given type, the module will provide an extra molecule but will wait for at least 2 molecules of that type to be spent in the lab before providing new ones.
Science projects
In addition to scoring points by helping Roche create new medicine for untreated diseases, a player may also further apply medical science by completing Science projects.
Each science project is worth 50 health points. It can be completed by either player.
Each game starts out with 3 random active science projects. To complete one, players must gather the required amount of molecule expertise for each type (A,B,C,D & E).
Robot Movement Matrix

SAMPLES	DIAGNOSIS	MOLECULES	LABORATORY
Start area	2	2	2	2
SAMPLES	0	3	3	3
DIAGNOSIS	3	0	3	4
MOLECULES	3	3	0	3
LABORATORY	3	4	3	0
 	GAME INPUT
Initialization input
Line 1:projectCount, number of science projects.
Next projectCount lines: 5 integers, the required amount of molecule expertise needed for each type.
Input for one game turn
For each player, 1 line: 1 string followed by 12 integers (you are always the first player):
target: module where the player is or is going to.
eta: number of turns before reaching the module (if greater than 0 the player's action will be ignored).
score: the player's number of health points
storageA, storageB, storageC, storageD, storageE: number of molecules held by the player for each molecule type.
expertiseA, expertiseB, expertiseC, expertiseD, expertiseE: the molecule expertise for each molecule type.
Next line:availableA, availableB, availableC, availableD, availableE: 5 integers, the number of available molecules for each type.

Next line:sampleCount: the number of samples currently in the game.
Next sampleCount lines:
sampleId: unique id for the sample.
carriedBy: 0 if the sample is carried by you, 1 by the other robot, -1 if the sample is in the cloud.
rank: rank of the sample 1, 2 or 3.
gain: expertise molecule gained when researching this sample A B C D or E.
health: number of health points you gain from this sample.
costA, costB, costC, costD, costE: number of molecules of each type needed to research the sample
Output for one game turn
Each turn issue one of the following command:
GOTO module: move towards the target module.
CONNECT id/type/ rank: connect to the target module with the specified sample id or retrieve a sample of a given rank at the SAMPLES module, or molecule of the given type at the MOLECULES module.
WAIT: do nothing.
Constraints
Health points scored with a rank 1 sample = 1 or 10
Health points scored with a rank 2 sample = 10, 20 or 30
Health points scored with a rank 3 sample = 30, 40 or 50
3≤ Total molecule cost for a rank 1 sample ≤5
5≤ Total molecule cost for a rank 2 sample ≤8
7≤ Total molecule cost for a rank 3 sample ≤14
Response time for first turn ≤ 1000ms 
Response time for one turn ≤ 50ms
